So, time for the final two methods.
Let's start with updating.
Here, we're extracting our todoId
and data from the request body.
And, previously, we then updated a todo locally
in our todos array.
Now, we're working with a database now,
so, of course, the idea is that we replace that logic
with a new logic.
So, let's delete that code here.
And now, before we send back a response,
let's get access to our Db with getDb.
Let's connect to the todos collection.
The same collection we used for storing todos
and for fetching todos.
And, on that collection, with MongoDB,
we can execute a updateOne method.
And this method does what the name implies.
It updates one document.
Now, updateOne takes two arguments.
The first argument is a filter
that allows us to find that one document
which we wanna update, and the second argument
will then be our update instructions.
So, let's start with the first argument.
You should pass an object here,
and then you can define a key, for example, the id,
and then the value that key should have in the database
to identify this document which you wanna update.
So, here, of course, I wanna use the id I got here.
However, this will be an id as a string,
and MongoDB uses this ObjectId thing internally.
Thankfully, converting a string
to such an ObjectId object is simple.
We just use ObjectId, what we're importing
from the Mongo module here.
We're just using this as a function,
and we pass our string id to it,
and this will convert it to an object.
Now, we'll also need to change one thing.
ObjectId always wants a string,
and this tid could actually be undefined,
as you see here in the tooltip.
The reason for that is that TypeScript doesn't know
with certainty whether we'll be able to find a todoId
in the params.
Well, since we wrote this code,
we, of course, know there will be a todoId
if this route is reached,
and, in TypeScript, we can add a exclamation mark here
to really make this clear that this will never be undefined.
That this will always be a string, therefore.
That's a tiny adjustment we'll need to make here.
Otherwise, we'll get an error later.
With that, we can add the second argument,
which are our update instructions.
And here, we can use a MongoDB specific syntax,
and you can learn more about MongoDB
in my MongoDB course by the way,
and that syntax is $set,
and then we define the key value pairs
where we wanna set a new value.
And here, at the end, I want to set text to a new value,
and I want to set it to data.value.text,
so to the text I have on the incoming request body.
That's the code we use to tell MongoDB
to update a document accordingly.
And now, just like the other MongoDB operations,
this returns a promise, so we can await this.
Here, I'm not even interested in the result of that
because I, thereafter, just set back a response like this.
Now, for deleting, it's quite similar to updating.
Here, we can replace this code, call getDb,
and then reach out to our todos collection.
And there, we now have a deleteOne method,
which deletes one document,
and just like updating, this needs an identifier.
It needs a description of how to find that one document.
For that, we can copy the exact same logic
as we're using it on updateOne for the first argument,
and copy that into deleteOne.
And now, here's the error I talked about earlier
about this tid potentially being undefined
and TypeScript not liking that.
And, again, as before, we know with certainty
that this will never be undefined,
that this will always be a string,
so we can add the exclamation mark here to make this clear,
and, with that, the error is gone,
and this will now delete one document.
I also want to await that,
and, for this, we need to convert this
into a async function, and I then return this response.
So, now, we got all that logic implemented.
That means that we can now got rid of that todos array here.
And if we now save all of that,
and we rerun this back-end application,
we should have an app where we can reload it,
and we still fetch the todos.
If I edit a todo, you see that's being updated here.
And if I reload, that still is there,
which means it was stored in a database.
And if I delete this, it's also gone now.
Now, of course, you could add a loading spinner here
on the front it ends on,
but this is not about the front-end.
It's about the back-end.
And if I restart the app, the data is still gone.
If I add a todo again, and then edit it like this,
and I then restart, the data is still there,
which proves that it really is stored in a database.
So, that's Deno, and how we can connect to a database
like MongoDB with help of the Mongo third-party module.